Interrupted elegy

Now I remember the dead of my own house.
We never forget the first among us dead,
though he was the one struck down, he died so fast
that nothing was there, no bed, no holy oils.
I hear the cane falter on a step of the stairs,
the body that makes itself secure, sighing,
the door opening, the dead man coming in.
Between a door and dying there's little space,
and there's hardly time enough to settle in,
look up and see what time it is
and find out: it's exactly quarter past eight.
Now I remember the dead of my own house.
The woman, the one who died night after night
and that was certainly a long leave-taking,
a train that never started, her agony.
Covetousness of the mouth
suspended on the thread of a sighing breath,
eyes that never close, eyes that send out signals
and wander from the lamp to my own eyes,
rigid stare which embraces another look,
the distant one, suffocating in embrace
and finally escapes and watches from the shore
how the soul is submerged and loses body
and never finds eyes that it can fasten on
And was it this stare that summoned me to death?
Perhaps to die with someone is not to die.
Perhaps we die only because nobody
is willing to die with us,nobody
is willing to look us in the eyes.
Now I remember the dead of my own house.
He who was absent for a matter of hours
and nobody knows the place where he is lost
nor what silence he has entered.
After dinner, every evening,
the colorless pause which leads to emptiness
or the endless sentence which is partly hanging
upon the shining spiderweb of silence
open a corridor for one returning:
we hear his footsteps, he climbs the stair, he stops...
And someone or other among us gets up
and shuts the door tight. 
But he, out there on the other side, insists.
He lies in ambush in every hole and fold,
he is wandering among the yawns, the suburbs.
He is not altogether dead, he is lost.
And although we may close the doors, he insists.
Now I remember the dead of my own house.
Faces lost in my head today, the faces
eyeless, or with eyes that are staring, emptied,
Am I perhaps searching in them for my secret,
the god of blood who excites the blood in me,
the god of ice, the god who devours me?
Their silence is the mirror of my life
in my own life their death is continuing:
among their mistakes, I am the last mistake.
Now I remember the dead of my own house.
The treacherous circle of imagining
that always flows out into its starting-place,
saliva that is dust, is dust and ashes,
the lying of the mouth and the lie itself,
the bad taste of the world, the indifferent,
abstract abyss of a mirror, nothing else,
all that which at the point of death is waiting,
all that never was-whatever was
and now will never be,in me it rises
and begs the body, to eat bread, eat fruit,
and drink the water that it has been denied.
But now there is no water, everything's dry,
bread has no taste, and fruit is bitter,
love is domesticated, masticated,
caged up within invisible prison bars,
masturbating ape and well-trained bitch,
what you devour is devouring you,
your victim is your executioner.
A heap of dead days, crumpled-up
newspapers, nights decorticated
and daybreaks, a tie, a running knot:
"greet the sun, spider, and not in rancor..."
This world is a desert that is a circle,
heaven is closed and hell is empty.
